# magchain_visualization_software
Visualization Software developed to use with MagChain simulation software

1) MagChainGLViewer developed in C++

2) MagChainPyViewer developed in VPython

3) MagChainFileConverter developed in Python 3

Table of contents
=================

<!--ts-->
   * [Description](#description)
   * [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
   * [Requirements](#Requirements)
   * [Installation](#Installation)
   * [Usage](#usage)
      * [MagChainGlViewer](#MagChainGlViewer)
      * [MagChainPyViewer](#MagChainPyViewer)
      * [MagChainFileConverter](#MagChainFileConverter)
   * [Authors](#Authors)
   * [License](#License)
   * [Acknowledgments](#Acknowledgements)
<!--te-->

# Description
1) MagChainGLViewer: 3D visualization application for the MagChain program.

2) MagChainPyViewer: 3D Visualization of `trajectoryCG.xyz` generated by MagChain

3) MagChainFileConverter: Graphical interface to convert the non-standard `trajectoryGC.xyz` to a standard .xyz file format. Moreover, an option for .pdb conversion is also available. This way the trajectory can be visualised with standard visualisation softwares as VMD or Pymol.

# Requirements
1) MagChainGLViewer: C++ compiler together with the openGL development libraries. (As example, the freeGLUT distribution in openSUSE linux).

2) MagChainPyViewer: VPython script to be executed by VIDLE for VPython (with VPython libraries). Documentation on VPython can be found at: http://vpython.org/contents/doc.html and it can be downloaded:

  - Linux: http://vpython.org/contents/download_linux.html
  - Windows: http://vpython.org/contents/download_windows.html
  - Mac: http://vpython.org/contents/download_mac.html
  
3) MagChainFileConverter: Python 3 installed with the following libraries

- PyQt5
- MdAnalysis

# Installation
1) MagChainGLViewer: type "make" into the source folder and select the achitecture.

2) MagChainPyViewer: Non-required.

3) MagChainFileConverter: Non-required.

# Usage

## MagChainGLViewer

To use MagChainGLViewer, after compiling the C++ source file by make and having obtained the executable, just follow the next instructions:

- Open a console and type `./executable_name trajectoryCG_filename.xyz`.
- For simplicity is better to have the trajectory file in the same directory where the MagChainGLViewer executable is.

- List of available commands (this list can be visualized by pressing the right-mousse button over the application window.)

       - 'P': Set perspective.
       - 'O': Set orthographic.
       - 'T': Activate Translations.
       - 'R': Activate Rotations.
       - 'a': Place axis reference at the center of the box.
       - 'A': Place axis reference at origin.
       - 'x': Rotate/Translate clockwise respect to the axis.
       - 'X': Rotate/Translate anti-clockwise respect to the axis.
       - 'y': Rotate/Translate clockwise respect to the axis.
       - 'Y': Rotate/Translate anti-clockwise respect to the axis.
       - 'z': Rotate/Translate clockwise respect to the axis.
       - 'Z': Rotate/Translate anti-clockwise respect to the axis.
       - '+': Zoom IN.
       - '-': Zoom OUT.
       - 'p': Toggle Play/Pause.   
       - 'r': Resart movie.                        
       - 'q': Restart view. 
       - 'Q': Quit the application.

## MagChainPyViewer
- Run "Representation.py" using IDLE in the same folder where the trajectory
	  generated by "MagChain" ("trajectoryCG.xyz") is.
    
- To help the visualization of the trajectory:
	    · The perspective can be changed by moving the mouse while pressing the right button. 
	    · The image can be zoomed in/out by moving the mouse forward/backward while pressing the left and right buttons       simultaneously.

## MagChainFileConverter
- Run MagChainFileConverter.pyw (no console application) by double clicking or typing in the console `python3 MagChainFileConverter.pyw`

- Import the `trajectoryCG.xyz` file provided by MagChain using the `Input files` section

- Choose a folder to save the output converted file in the choose output folder section. In no folder is choosen the file will be saved in the current folder.

- Give a name for the output file and press the `convert` button.

# Authors

1) J.S. Andreu

2) C. Calero

3) A. Giménez-Romero

# License

This project is licensed under the GNU License - see the [LICENSE.md](https://github.com/alexeltsar/SPC_EnergyConfigurations/blob/master/LICENSE) file for details

